NIP-46
======

Nostr Connect
-------------

`draft` `optional`

This NIP describes a method for 2-way communication between a **remote signer** and a normal Nostr client. The remote signer could be, for example, a hardware device dedicated to signing Nostr events, while the client is a normal Nostr client.

## Signer Discovery

The client always starts by generating a random key which is used to communicate with the signer, then it one of the methods below is used to allow the client to know what is the signer public key for the session and which relays to use.

> [!NOTE]  
> セッションごと？

> [!NOTE]  
> https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/pull/831#issuecomment-1821474706
> 
> > but it may be better to use a random key for the session or a persistent signer-key.
> 
> 永続的な pubkey でも良さげ。まあ、そうですよね

### Started by the signer (nsecBunker)

The remote signer generates a connection token in the form

```
bunker://<hex-pubkey>?relay=wss://...&relay=wss://...&secret=<optional-secret>
```

> [!NOTE]  
> `optional-secret` は OTP (ワンタイム パスワード)
> 
> 参考: https://ndk.fyi/docs/classes/NDKNip46Signer.html#constructor

The user copies that token and pastes it in the client UI somehow. Then the client can send events of kind `24133` to the specified relays and wait for responses from the remote signer.

> [!NOTE]  
> https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/pull/831#discussion_r1372968659
> 
> 会話の流れから察すると、`connect` を送信する必要はなさそう

### Started by the client

The client generates a QR code in the following form (URL-encoded):

```
nostrconnect://<client-key-hex>?relay=wss://...&metadata={"name":"...", "url": "...", "description": "..."}
```

The signer scans the QR code and sends a `connect` message to the client in the specified relays.

> [!NOTE]  
> NIP を素直に解釈すると、`"ack"` を送信すれば良さそう

> [!NOTE]  
> Nostrum は古い実装っぽい
> 
> https://github.com/nostr-connect/connect/blob/7723e2694b03d5c435741c3682b2e65aa419e805/src/connect.ts#L78-L93

## Event payloads

Event payloads are [NIP-04](04.md)-encrypted JSON blobs that look like JSONRPC messages (their format is specified inside the `.content` of the event formats below).

Events sent by the client to the remote signer have the following format:

```js
{
  "pubkey": "<client-key-hex>"
  "kind": 24133,
  "tags": [
    ["p", "<signer-key-hex>"]
  ],
  "content": "nip04_encrypted_json({id: <random-string>, method: <see-below>, params: [array_of_strings]})",
  ...
}
```

And the events the remote signer sends to the client have the following format:

```js
  "pubkey": "<signer-key-hex>"
  "kind": 24133,
  "tags": [
    ["p", "<client-key-hex>"]
  ],
  "content": "nip04_encrypted_json({id: <request-id>, result: <string>, error: <reason-string>})",
  ...
```

The signer key will always be the key of the user who controls the signer device.

> [!NOTE]  
> これは何でも良さそう

> [!NOTE]  
> ユーザーの pubkey か、ユーザーごとの署名者の pubkey

### Methods

- **connect**
  - params: [`pubkey`, `secret`]
  - result: `"ack"`

> [!NOTE]  
> なるほど、わからん
> 
> https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/pull/831#discussion_r1401571254

- **get_public_key**
  - params: []
  - result: `pubkey-hex`
- **sign_event**
  - params: [`event`]
  - result: `json_string(event_with_pubkey_id_and_signature)`
- **get_relays**
  - params: []
  - result: `json_string({[url: string]: {read: boolean, write: boolean}})`
- **nip04_encrypt**
  - params: [`third-party-pubkey`, `plaintext`]
  - result: `nip04-ciphertext`
- **nip04_decrypt**
  - params: [`third-party-pubkey`, `nip04-ciphertext`]
  - result: `plaintext`
- **nip44_get_key**
  - params: [`third-party-pubkey`]
  - result: `nip44-conversation-key`
- **nip44_encrypt**
  - params: [`third-party-pubkey`, `plaintext`]
  - result: `nip44-ciphertext`
- **nip44_decrypt**
  - params: [`third-party-pubkey`, `nip44-ciphertext`]
  - result: `plaintext`
- **ping**
  - params: []
  - result: `"pong"`
